README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# **Omron SN2 (𝜏, β)**

[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/308323056592486420.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/bittensor)

### Proof of Inference

[Documentation](https://docs.omron.ai/) • [X](https://twitter.com/omron_ai) • [Inference Labs](https://twitter.com/inference_labs) • [Explorer](https://taostats.io/) • [Dashboard](https://wandb.ai/inferencelabs/omron)

</div>

Omron represents a significant stride in enhancing the Bittensor network, aiming to create the world's largest peer-to-peer **Verified** Intelligence network, by building a Proof-of-Inference system for the Bittensor network. This initiative aligns with the Opentensor foundation's criteria for innovative subnet solutions. zk-ML allows AI models to be converted into a unique 'fingerprint,' a circuit that can be used to verify that a model's prediction was generated by a specific AI model, thereby providing what we term as Proof-of-Inference.

## Miners and Validators Functionality

### Incentive Mechanism and Reward Structure

Omron incentivizes miners and validators on Subnet 2 to contribute to the generation and validation of high-quality, secure, and efficient verified AI predictions using a specialized reward mechanism that aligns with the unique aspects of zero-knowledge machine learning (zk-ML) and decentralized AI. Currently Zero-knowledge proofs are generally more CPU computationally intensive and opens the opportunity for non-GPU miners to participate however the end goal is to further incentivize the development of proving systems optimized for GPU based operations. The incentives are based around Miners creating succinct and efficient models which can be circuitized with a zero-knowledge proving system.

The reward mechanism for Subnet 2 scores the initial AI predictions based on the cryptographic integrity and time to generate zk-proofs along with the outputs, rather than solely on end results. This approach reduces the computational burden on validators as zk-proofs confirm the source model and integrity of AI predictions efficiently.

### Miners

- Receive input data from validators on the subnet.
- Generate predictions using custom, verifiable AI models that have been converted into zero knowledge circuits
- Return the generated content to the requesting validator for validation and distribution.

### Validators

- Produce input data and distribute requests for verified inference throughout miners participating on the subnet
- Confirm that miners are acting faithfully, by verifying the authenticity of the miner's returned zero knowledge proof
- Score results from miners based on performance metrics such as proof size and response time

## Quickstart

Run the below command to install Omron and it's dependencies.

```console
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/inference-labs-inc/omron-subnet/main/setup.sh)"
```

[See full setup guide →](docs/shared_setup_steps.md)

### Register on the SN

```console
btcli subnet register --subtensor.network finney --netuid 2 --wallet.name {your_coldkey} --wallet.hotkey {your_hotkey}
```

### Run the miner

#### With docker compose (recommended)

```yaml
---
services:

  omron-miner:
    image: ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 8091:8091
    volumes:  # Update this path to your .bittensor directory
      - {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor
    labels:
      - com.centurylinklabs.watchtower.enable=true  # Enables Watchtower for this container
    command: miner.py --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name} --netuid 2

  # Use Watchtower automatically update containers
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    command: --interval 60 --cleanup --label-enable
```

#### With docker cli

```console
docker run -d \
  --name omron-miner \
  -p 8091:8091 \
  -v {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest \
  miner.py \
  --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name} \
  --netuid 2
```

#### With pm2

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure you are within the `/neurons` directory before using the commands below to start your miner
>
> ```console
> cd neurons
> ```

##### Within a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start miner.py --name miner --interpreter ../omron-venv/bin/python --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
--netuid 2 \
--wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
--wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name}
```

##### Outside of a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start miner.py --name miner --interpreter python3 --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
  --netuid 2 \
  --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name}
```

### Run the validator

#### With docker compose (recommended)

```yaml
---
services:

  omron-validator:
    image: ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 8443:8443
      - 9090:9090  # In case you use prometheus monitoring
    volumes:  # Update this path to your .bittensor directory
      - {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor
    labels:
      - com.centurylinklabs.watchtower.enable=true  # Enables Watchtower for this container
    command: validator.py --wallet.name {validator_key_name} --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name} --netuid 2

  # Use Watchtower automatically update containers
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    command: --interval 60 --cleanup --label-enable
```

#### With docker cli

```console
docker run -d \
  --name omron-validator \
  -p 8443:8443 \
  -p 9090:9090 \
  -v {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest \
  validator.py \
  --wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name} \
  --netuid 2
```

#### With pm2

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure you are within the `/neurons` directory before using the commands below to start your validator
>
> ```console
> cd neurons
> ```

##### Within a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start validator.py --name validator --interpreter ../omron-venv/bin/python --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
--netuid 2 \
--wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
--wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name}
```

##### Outside of a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start validator.py --name validator --interpreter python3 --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
  --netuid 2 \
  --wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name}
```

## Miner

Miners contribute to this subnet by providing compute to generate output from, and prove AI model inferences. Miners receive workloads from validators in the form of input data, perform verified inferences on those inputs and respond with output along with a zero knowledge proof of inference.

### Hardware requirements

#### Minimum

| Component    | Requirement   |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| CPU          | 8 core 3.2GHz |
| RAM          | 32GB          |
| Network Up   | 400Mbps       |
| Network Down | 400Mbps       |
| Storage      | 100GB         |

#### Recommended

> [!NOTE]
> Exceeding these requirements in terms of storage, network and CPU speed will most likely result in higher rewards due to performance incentivization.

| Component      | Recommendation |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| CPU            | 8 core 3.6GHz  |
| RAM            | 64GB           |
| Network Up     | 1Gbps          |
| Network Down   | 1Gbps          |
| Storage        | 400GB          |
| Storage Medium | SSD            |

## Validator

Validators are responsible for verifying model outputs as provided by miners, and updating that miner's score based on the verification results.

### Hardware requirements

#### Minimum

| Component    | Requirement   |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| CPU          | 8 core 3.2GHz |
| RAM          | 16GB          |
| Network Up   | 400Mbps       |
| Network Down | 400Mbps       |
| Storage      | 1TB           |

#### Recommended

| Component      | Recommendation |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| CPU            | 8 core 3.4GHz  |
| RAM            | 32GB           |
| Network Up     | 1+Gbps         |
| Network Down   | 1+Gbps         |
| Storage        | 2+TB           |
| Storage Medium | SSD            |

Commit message:

Update README and Makefile with PUID environment variable support

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# **Omron SN2 (𝜏, β)**

[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/308323056592486420.svg?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/bittensor)

### Proof of Inference

[Documentation](https://docs.omron.ai/) • [X](https://twitter.com/omron_ai) • [Inference Labs](https://twitter.com/inference_labs) • [Explorer](https://taostats.io/) • [Dashboard](https://wandb.ai/inferencelabs/omron)

</div>

Omron represents a significant stride in enhancing the Bittensor network, aiming to create the world's largest peer-to-peer **Verified** Intelligence network, by building a Proof-of-Inference system for the Bittensor network. This initiative aligns with the Opentensor foundation's criteria for innovative subnet solutions. zk-ML allows AI models to be converted into a unique 'fingerprint,' a circuit that can be used to verify that a model's prediction was generated by a specific AI model, thereby providing what we term as Proof-of-Inference.

## Miners and Validators Functionality

### Incentive Mechanism and Reward Structure

Omron incentivizes miners and validators on Subnet 2 to contribute to the generation and validation of high-quality, secure, and efficient verified AI predictions using a specialized reward mechanism that aligns with the unique aspects of zero-knowledge machine learning (zk-ML) and decentralized AI. Currently Zero-knowledge proofs are generally more CPU computationally intensive and opens the opportunity for non-GPU miners to participate however the end goal is to further incentivize the development of proving systems optimized for GPU based operations. The incentives are based around Miners creating succinct and efficient models which can be circuitized with a zero-knowledge proving system.

The reward mechanism for Subnet 2 scores the initial AI predictions based on the cryptographic integrity and time to generate zk-proofs along with the outputs, rather than solely on end results. This approach reduces the computational burden on validators as zk-proofs confirm the source model and integrity of AI predictions efficiently.

### Miners

- Receive input data from validators on the subnet.
- Generate predictions using custom, verifiable AI models that have been converted into zero knowledge circuits
- Return the generated content to the requesting validator for validation and distribution.

### Validators

- Produce input data and distribute requests for verified inference throughout miners participating on the subnet
- Confirm that miners are acting faithfully, by verifying the authenticity of the miner's returned zero knowledge proof
- Score results from miners based on performance metrics such as proof size and response time

## Quickstart

Run the below command to install Omron and it's dependencies.

```console
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/inference-labs-inc/omron-subnet/main/setup.sh)"
```

[See full setup guide →](docs/shared_setup_steps.md)

### Register on the SN

```console
btcli subnet register --subtensor.network finney --netuid 2 --wallet.name {your_coldkey} --wallet.hotkey {your_hotkey}
```

### Run the miner

#### With docker compose (recommended)

```yaml
---
services:

  omron-miner:
    image: ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 8091:8091
    volumes:
      # Update this path to your .bittensor directory
      # Note: use /root/.bittensor instead of /home/ubuntu/.bittensor if you set PUID to 0
      - {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor
    environment:
      # This UID needs to be able to read/write to your .bittensor directory, either update the UID or the directory permissions
      - PUID=1000
    labels:
      - com.centurylinklabs.watchtower.enable=true  # Enables Watchtower for this container
    command: miner.py --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name} --netuid 2

  # Use Watchtower automatically update containers
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    command: --interval 60 --cleanup --label-enable
```

#### With docker cli

```console
docker run -d \
  --name omron-miner \
  -p 8091:8091 \
  -v {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest \
  miner.py \
  --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name} \
  --netuid 2
```

#### With pm2

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure you are within the `/neurons` directory before using the commands below to start your miner
>
> ```console
> cd neurons
> ```

##### Within a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start miner.py --name miner --interpreter ../omron-venv/bin/python --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
--netuid 2 \
--wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
--wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name}
```

##### Outside of a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start miner.py --name miner --interpreter python3 --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
  --netuid 2 \
  --wallet.name {your_miner_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {your_miner_hotkey_name}
```

### Run the validator

#### With docker compose (recommended)

```yaml
---
services:

  omron-validator:
    image: ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - 8443:8443
      - 9090:9090  # In case you use prometheus monitoring
    volumes:
      # Update this path to your .bittensor directory
      # Note: use /root/.bittensor instead of /home/ubuntu/.bittensor if you set PUID to 0
      - {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor
    environment:
      # This UID needs to be able to read/write to your .bittensor directory, either update the UID or the directory permissions
      - PUID=1000
    labels:
      - com.centurylinklabs.watchtower.enable=true  # Enables Watchtower for this container
    command: validator.py --wallet.name {validator_key_name} --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name} --netuid 2

  # Use Watchtower automatically update containers
  watchtower:
    image: containrrr/watchtower:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    volumes:
      - /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro
    command: --interval 60 --cleanup --label-enable
```

#### With docker cli

```console
docker run -d \
  --name omron-validator \
  -p 8443:8443 \
  -p 9090:9090 \
  -v {path_to_your_.bittensor_directory}:/home/ubuntu/.bittensor \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/inference-labs-inc/omron:latest \
  validator.py \
  --wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name} \
  --netuid 2
```

#### With pm2

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure you are within the `/neurons` directory before using the commands below to start your validator
>
> ```console
> cd neurons
> ```

##### Within a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start validator.py --name validator --interpreter ../omron-venv/bin/python --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
--netuid 2 \
--wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
--wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name}
```

##### Outside of a virtual environment

```console
pm2 start validator.py --name validator --interpreter python3 --kill-timeout 3000 -- \
  --netuid 2 \
  --wallet.name {validator_key_name} \
  --wallet.hotkey {validator_hot_key_name}
```

## Miner

Miners contribute to this subnet by providing compute to generate output from, and prove AI model inferences. Miners receive workloads from validators in the form of input data, perform verified inferences on those inputs and respond with output along with a zero knowledge proof of inference.

### Hardware requirements

#### Minimum

| Component    | Requirement   |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| CPU          | 8 core 3.2GHz |
| RAM          | 32GB          |
| Network Up   | 400Mbps       |
| Network Down | 400Mbps       |
| Storage      | 100GB         |

#### Recommended

> [!NOTE]
> Exceeding these requirements in terms of storage, network and CPU speed will most likely result in higher rewards due to performance incentivization.

| Component      | Recommendation |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| CPU            | 8 core 3.6GHz  |
| RAM            | 64GB           |
| Network Up     | 1Gbps          |
| Network Down   | 1Gbps          |
| Storage        | 400GB          |
| Storage Medium | SSD            |

## Validator

Validators are responsible for verifying model outputs as provided by miners, and updating that miner's score based on the verification results.

### Hardware requirements

#### Minimum

| Component    | Requirement   |
| ------------ | ------------- |
| CPU          | 8 core 3.2GHz |
| RAM          | 16GB          |
| Network Up   | 400Mbps       |
| Network Down | 400Mbps       |
| Storage      | 1TB           |

#### Recommended

| Component      | Recommendation |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| CPU            | 8 core 3.4GHz  |
| RAM            | 32GB           |
| Network Up     | 1+Gbps         |
| Network Down   | 1+Gbps         |
| Storage        | 2+TB           |
| Storage Medium | SSD            |
