docs/README.md, before:

[← Back to home]

<div align="center">

# Omron Docs

</div>

## [Setup instructions]

Instructions for setting up your machine to validate or mine on the Omron subnet.

[View setup instructions →]

## [Running on Mainnet]

Instructions for mining or validating on Omron mainnet.

[View mainnet instructions →]

## [Running on Testnet]

Instructions for mining or validating on Omron testnet.

[View testnet instructions →]

## [Running locally (on "staging")]

Instructions for mining or validating on a local bittensor instance, called Omron staging.

[View local instructions →]

## [Command Line Arguments]

An overview of command line configuration options supported by miner and validator software.

[View CLI Arguments →]

[Setup instructions]: ./shared_setup_steps.md
[Running on Mainnet]: ./running_on_mainnet.md
[Running on Testnet]: ./running_on_testnet.md
[Running locally (on "staging")]: ./running_on_staging.md
[Command Line Arguments]: ./command_line_arguments.md

[View setup instructions →]: ./shared_setup_steps.md
[View CLI Arguments →]: ./command_line_arguments.md
[View mainnet instructions →]: ./running_on_mainnet.md
[View testnet instructions →]: ./running_on_testnet.md
[View local instructions →]: ./running_on_staging.md
[← Back to home]: ../

Commit message:

Bump version to 0.1.6, update docs for PM2 configuration

docs/README.md, after:

[← Back to home]

<div align="center">

# Omron Docs

</div>

## [Setup instructions]

Instructions for setting up your machine to validate or mine on the Omron subnet.

[View setup instructions →]

## [Running on Mainnet]

Instructions for mining or validating on Omron mainnet.

[View mainnet instructions →]

## [Running on Testnet]

Instructions for mining or validating on Omron testnet.

[View testnet instructions →]

## [Running locally (on "staging")]

Instructions for mining or validating on a local bittensor instance, called Omron staging.

[View local instructions →]

## [Command Line Arguments]

An overview of command line configuration options supported by miner and validator software.

[View CLI Arguments →]

## [PM2 Configuration]

Instructions for configuring a PM2 ecosystem file which allows for streamlined startup of miners and validators.

[View PM2 Configuration →]

[Setup instructions]: ./shared_setup_steps.md
[Running on Mainnet]: ./running_on_mainnet.md
[Running on Testnet]: ./running_on_testnet.md
[Running locally (on "staging")]: ./running_on_staging.md
[Command Line Arguments]: ./command_line_arguments.md
[PM2 Configuration]: ./pm2_configuration.md
[View setup instructions →]: ./shared_setup_steps.md
[View CLI Arguments →]: ./command_line_arguments.md
[View PM2 Configuration →]: ./pm2_configuration.md
[View mainnet instructions →]: ./running_on_mainnet.md
[View testnet instructions →]: ./running_on_testnet.md
[View local instructions →]: ./running_on_staging.md
[← Back to home]: ../
